---
layout: distill
title: Blender Tutorial
description: Rendering Video for your Technical Papers
tags: distill formatting
giscus_comments: true
date: 2024-11-30
featured: true



# Optionally, you can add a table of contents to your post.
# NOTES:
#   - make sure that TOC names match the actual section names
#     for hyperlinks within the post to work correctly.
#   - we may want to automate TOC generation in the future using
#     jekyll-toc plugin (https://github.com/toshimaru/jekyll-toc).
toc:
  - name: Scene Set Up
    # if a section has subsections, you can add them as follows:
    # subsections:
    #   - name: Example Child Subsection 1
    #   - name: Example Child Subsection 2
  - name: Magic of Key Framing
  - name: Footnotes

# Below is an example of injecting additional post-specific styles.
# If you use this post as a template, delete this _styles block.
_styles: >
  .fake-img {
    background: #bbb;
    border: 1px solid rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.1);
    box-shadow: 0 0px 4px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.1);
    margin-bottom: 12px;
  }
  .fake-img p {
    font-family: monospace;
    color: white;
    text-align: left;
    margin: 12px 0;
    text-align: center;
    font-size: 16px;
  }
---

There are several amazing tutorials available online ([like this one](https://youtu.be/TPrnSACiTJ4?feature=shared)) for Blender. Here, I hope to give a quick guide on rendering 360$$^{\circ}$$ view of a mesh, which is often used to present results in technical papers.  

For inital set-up I would suggest [Silvia's tutorial](https://www.silviasellan.com/posts/blender_figure/) which gives a detail step-by-step instruction on how to render an image of given mesh. Assuming that you've made yourself familiar with basic set-up, navigation and image rendering, Im skipping over some very trivial intermediate steps.

## Scene Set Up
<p>1. Open up blender. This is the default screen you see. </p>
<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="/assets/blender_tutorial/1.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>

Press **a** to select everything in the view port and press **x** or **del** to delete everything.

<p>2. We need three things to render a scene\: Object (mesh), light and camera. First, load your mesh from <i>File -> Import -> Wavefront (.obj)</i>. I'm using the famous <a href="https://graphics.stanford.edu/data/3Dscanrep">Standford Bunny</a> as example.</p>

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="/assets/blender_tutorial/2.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>

<p>3. Load the camera using <i><strong>shift+a</strong> -> Camera</i>. Press <strong>space</strong> to bring up the search option. This can be set up in Preferences. Given the hundred options available in blender, this is the easiest way to find things. Search <strong>Align Active Camera to View</strong> and select. Press the camera icon (red) to align to camera veiw.  </p>

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="/assets/blender_tutorial/3.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="/assets/blender_tutorial/4.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
</div>

You can use the side toggle to view camera options. Select <i>View -> View -> Camera to View</i>, to further adjust your camera to the mesh. 


<p>4. Next, load the ground plane using <i><strong>shift+a</strong> -> Mesh -> Plane</i>. Scale the plane (press <strong>s</strong> and drag) and adjust it lie just below the mesh (press <strong>g</strong> to grab, <strong>z</strong> to select axis and drag). We'll use this plane to form the background as well. Press <strong>tab</strong> to enter edit mode. Select the two vertices and press <strong>e</strong> (to extrude), <strong>z</strong> (select axis) and drag. </p>

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="/assets/blender_tutorial/5.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="/assets/blender_tutorial/6.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
        <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="/assets/blender_tutorial/7.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
</div>

We need to smoothen the edge, for better appearance. Select the vertices joining the two planes, select <i>Add Modifier -> Generate -> Bevel</i>. This option might be different based on the Blender versions, so you can use the space bar for searching bevel as well. Increase the <i>Amount</i> and <i>Segments</i> for smoothness.
<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="/assets/blender_tutorial/8.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="/assets/blender_tutorial/9.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
</div>
Bring the background closer to mesh if the it appears darker during rendering.

<p>5. Load a light using <i><strong>shift+a</strong> -> Light -> Point</i>. Im using point light, but feel free to explore different lights and adjust accordingly. Place the light above the mesh, a little towards the camera. Increase the power to 300w and radius to 1m for softer shadows. </p>

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="/assets/blender_tutorial/10.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>

<p>6. Finally, go to shading section to set the material properties. Select <strong>New</strong> material, and adjust color and material properties as you see fit. You can set materials for ground plane as well and adjust the color. </p>

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="/assets/blender_tutorial/11.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="/assets/blender_tutorial/12.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
</div>

Now you can view the image of your mesh by rendering. You can readjust the lighting, camera and material properties based on the redering. 

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="/assets/blender_tutorial/render.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>

---

## Magic of Key Framing

Blender <strong>Key Framing</strong> is a blessing in disguise! We'll be using this to interpolate between our mesh positions. There's two ways you can render a 360$$^{\circ}$$ view of the mesh, either rotate the camera, or the mesh. I think rotating the mesh is the easiest way to go about it.

First, pull up the <strong>Timeline</strong> which is used to see the animation progress. In the <strong>Output</strong>, set the <i>output path</i>, <i>Frame End</i>  to 120 and <i>File Format</i> to FFmpeg.     
<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="/assets/blender_tutorial/13.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
</div>

In the Timeline, go to frame 10. Then right click on the <i>Mesh -> Insert Keyframe </i>. Alternatively, press <strong>i</strong> to insert a keyframe, however make sure that the mouse is hovering in the viewport (where the mesh is). This sets our first position.

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="/assets/blender_tutorial/14.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="/assets/blender_tutorial/15.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
</div>

Next, go to frame 110. Press <strong>r</strong>, <strong>z</strong> and type <strong>360</strong>. This rotates our mesh by 360$$^{\circ}$$ around Z axis. Now set the keyframe again by right click on the <i>Mesh -> Insert Keyframe </i> or press <strong>i</strong>.

Now blender automatically interpolates between these two positions. This can be seen by moving forward and back in the <strong>Timeline</strong>. Finally, render the animation <i>Render -> Render Animation</i>.

 <div class="columns is-centered has-text-centered">
    <div id="wrapper"> 
      <video id="home2" poster=""   controls muted    playsinline width="100%"> 
        <source type="video/mp4" src="/assets/blender_tutorial/bunny.mkv"   /> 
      </video>
      
      <div class="clear"></div> 
  </div>
</div>
This gives us our 360$$^{\circ}$$ video!! <d-footnote>Feel free to mail me with queries or suggestions :)</d-footnote>




